I work on helping computers communicate
about the world around us there are a
lot of ways to do this and I like to
focus on health feeding computers to
talk about what they see and understand
Givens seem like this a modern computer
vision algorithm can tell you that
there's a woman and there's a dog it can
tell you that the woman is smiling it
might even be able to tell you that the
dog is incredibly cute I work on this
problem thinking about how humans
understand and process the world the
thoughts memories and stories that is
seen like this might evoke for humans
all the interconnections of related
situations maybe you've seen a dog like
this one before or you've spent time
running on a beach like this one and
that further evokes thoughts and
memories of a past vacation past times
to the beach time spent running around
with other dogs one of my guiding
principles is that by helping computers
to understand what it's like to have
these experiences to understand what we
share and believe and feel then we're in
a great position to start evolving
computer technology in a way that's
complementary with our own experiences
so digging more deeply into this a few
years ago I began working on helping
computers to generate human-like stories
from sequences of images so one day I
was working with my computer to ask it
what it thought about a trip to
Australia it took a look at the pictures
and it saw a koala it didn't know what
the koala was but it said it thought it
was an interesting looking creature then
I shared with it a sequence of images
about a house burning down I took a look
at the images and it said this is an
amazing view this is spectacular
it sent chills down my spine
it's a horrible life changing and life
destroying event and thought it was
something positive I realized that it
recognized the contrast the Reds the
yellows and thought it was something
worse remarking on positively and part
of why it was doing this was because
most of the images I had given it were
positive images that's because people
tend to share positive images when they
talk about their experiences when's the
last time you saw a selfie at a funeral
I realized that as I worked on improving
AI task by task data set by data set
that I was creating massive gaps holes
and blind spots in what it could
understand and while doing so I was
encoding all kinds of biases biases that
reflect a limited viewpoint limited to a
single data set biases that can reflect
human biases found in the data such as
prejudice and stereotyping I thought
back to the evolution of the technology
that brought me to where I was that day
how the first color images were
calibrated against a white woman's skin
meaning that color photography was
biased against black faces and that same
bias that same blind spot continued well
into the 90s and the same blind spot
continues even today and how well we can
recognize different people's faces in
facial recognition technology I thought
about the state of the art and research
today where we tend to limit our
thinking to one data set and one problem
and that in doing so we were creating
more blind spots and biases that the AI
could further amplify I realized then
that we had to think deeply about how
the technology we work on today looks in
five years in ten years humans evolved
slowly was time to correct her issues in
the interaction of humans in their
environment in contrast
artificial intelligence is involved is
evolving at an incredibly fast rate and
that means that it really matters that
we think about this carefully right now
that we reflect on our own blind spots
our own biases and think about how
that's informing the technology we're
creating and discuss what the technology
of today will mean for tomorrow
CEOs and scientists have weighed in on
what they think the artificial
intelligence technology of the future
will be Stephen Hawking warns that
artificial intelligence could end
mankind Elon Musk warns that it's an
existential risk and one of the greatest
risks that we face as a civilization
Bill Gates has made the point I don't
understand why people aren't more
concerned but these views they're part
of the story the math the models the
basic building blocks of artificial
intelligence are something that we can
all access and all work with we have
open-source tools from machine learning
and intelligence that we can contribute
to and beyond that we can share our
experience we can share our experiences
with technology and how it concerns us
and how it excites us we can discuss
what we love we can communicate with
foresight about the aspects of
technology that could be more beneficial
or could be more problematic over time
if we all focus on opening up the
discussion on AI with foresight towards
the future this will help create a
general conversation and awareness about
what AI is now what it can become
and all the things that we need to do in
order to enable that outcome that best
suits us we already see and know this in
the technology that we use today we use
smart phones and digital assistants and
Roombas are they evil maybe sometimes
are they beneficial yes they're that too
and they're not all the same and there
you already see a light shining on what
the future holds the future continues on
from what we build and create right now
we set into motion that domino effect
that carves out a eyes evolutionary path
in our time right now we shape the AI of
tomorrow technology that immerses us in
augmented reality x' bringing to life
past world's technology that helps
people to share their experiences when
they have difficulty communicating
technology built on understanding the
streaming visual worlds used as
technology for self-driving cars
technology built on understanding images
and generating language evolving into
technology that helps people who are
visually impaired better able to access
the visual world and we also see how
technology can lead to problems we have
technology today that analyzes physical
characteristics were born with such as
the color of our skin or the look of our
face in order to determine whether or
not we might be criminals or terrorists
we have technology that crunches through
our data even data relating to our
gender or our race in order to determine
whether or not we might get alone all
that we see now is a snapshot in the
evolution of artificial intelligence
because where we are right now is within
a moment of that evolution that means
that what we do now will affect what
happens down the line and in the future
if we want AI to evolve in a way that
helps humans then we need to define the
goals and strategies that enable that
path now what I'd like to see is
something that fits well with humans
with our culture and with the
environment technology that aids and
assists those of us with neurological
conditions or other disabilities in
order to make life equally challenging
for everyone
technology that works regardless of your
demographics or the color of your skin
and so did
what I focus on is the technology for
tomorrow and for 10 years from now
AI can turn out in many different ways
but in this case it isn't a self-driving
car without any destination this is a
car that we are driving we choose when
to speed up and when to slow down we
choose if we need to make a turn we
choose what the AI of the future will be
there's a vast playing field of all the
things that artificial intelligence can
become it will become many things and
it's up to us now in order to figure out
what we need to put in place to make
sure the outcomes of artificial
intelligence are the ones that will be
better for all of us thank you
[Applause]